Improve documentation (#11)
Cambridge-ICCS/fortran-pytorch-lib: README.md

# Fortran-PyTorch-lib

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Cambridge-ICCS/fortran-pytorch-lib)

Code and examples for directly calling Pytorch ML models from Fortran.

## Description

It is desirable be able to run machine learning (ML) models directly in Fortran.
Such models are often trained in some other language (say Python) using popular frameworks (say PyTorch) and saved.
We want to run inference on this model without having to call a Python executable.
To achieve this we use the existing ML C++ interface.

This project provides a library enabling a user to directly couple their PyTorch models to Fortran code.
We provide installation instructions for the libaray as well as instructions and examples for performing coupling.

## Installation

### Dependencies

To install the library requires the following to be installed on the system:

> * cmake

Reviewer: Specify minimum version number

* [libtorch](https://pytorch.org/cppdocs/installing.html) or [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/)

> * Fortran, C++, and C compilers

Reviewer: Any Fortran compiler?

Author: We've tested with gcc and intel, I can specify that here. The user may want to build to match the rest of their code I guess.

### Library installation

To build and install the library:

> 1. Navigate to the location in which you wish to install the source and run:  

Reviewer: Mention that this assumes you are cloning using SSH. You could provide the HTTPS equivalent also.

    ```

>     git@github.com:Cambridge-ICCS/fortran-pytorch-lib.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git clone git@github.com:Cambridge-ICCS/fortran-pytorch-lib.git
```

Author: Whoops...

    ```
2. Navigate into the source directory by running:  
    ```
    cd fortran-pytorch-lib/fortran-pytorch-lib/
    ```
3. Create a `build` directory and execute cmake from within it using the relevant flags:  
    ```
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=<FC> -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<CXXC> -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<CC> -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=</path/to/install/lib/at/> -DTorch_DIR=</path/to/torch>/share/cmake/Torch
    ```  

>     where `<FC>`, `<CXXC>`, and `<CC>` are, respectively, a fortran, c++, and C compiler on the system, `</path/to/install/lib/at/>` is the location for the final install, and `</path/to/torch/>` is the path to the libtorch installation - if installed via PyTorch in a venv this will be located at `venv/lib/python3.xx/site-packages/torch`.

Reviewer: Perhaps provide a typical example of the parametrised cmake command

Author: Thanks, I'm not really happy with how this is presented, but can't work out a less verbose way of presenting it at the moment.

Reviewer: Much of this is not necessary. The `LANGUAGES C CXX Fortran` is specified in the project arguments and as such cmake will search for a system compiler and error if not found. You could either link to [external documentation on manually specifying a compiler](https://gitlab.kitware.com/cmake/community/-/wikis/FAQ#how-do-i-use-a-different-compiler) or summarise what is presented externally. E.g. Use of environment variables or via `D` flag.

Reviewer: `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` will default to `\usr\local` which seems sensible. I would suggest to document this below perhaps in a table of useful cmake options (along with perhaps the compiler ones) but assume in the readme example that the default location is fine.

Reviewer: Likewise with `Torch`. The `find_package` command will usually find torch and the default way of specifying extra places it might be is `set(CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH "/location/of/torch")`.

Reviewer: In summary I think you can remove all arguments form the example but provide some documentation on the correct cmake way of specifying them.

Author: Testing on CSD3 and CMake doesn't seem to be able to find Torch by default with a `find_package(Torch REQUIRED)`, so I think we may need the user to specify this one.

It also defaults to gnu compilers for C, Cpp, and Fortran (default CMake behaviour?)

I have started to adapt the readme to include a table.

    | [`CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_LANG_COMPILER.html)     | `icc` / `gcc`                | Specify a C++ compiler to build the library with              |
    | [`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH.html)        | `</path/to/libTorch/>`          | Location of Torch installation<sup>1</sup> |
    | [`CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX.html)  | `</path/to/install/lib/at/>` | Location at which the library files should be installed. By default this is `/usr/local` |
    | [`CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html)          | `Release` / `Debug`          | Specifies build type.                                         |

    <sup>1</sup> _The path to the Torch installation needs to allow cmake to loate the relevant Torch cmake files.  
          If Torch has been [installed as libtorch](https://pytorch.org/cppdocs/installing.html) then this should be the absolute path to the unzipped libtorch distribution.

>           If Torch has been installed as pyTorch in a python [venv (virtual environment)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) then this should be `</path/to/venv/>lib/python<3.xx>/site-packages/torch/`_

Author: I've struggled with this phrasing a lot. They call the software PyTorch, but then you `pip install torch`. Similarly they call the C++ distribution 'libtorch', but then it's always referred to as 'Torch' again. I've rephrased to make it a little more explicit.

This can be done from within your code using the [`jit.script`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.jit.script.html#torch.jit.script) or [`jit.trace`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.jit.trace.html#torch.jit.trace) functionalities from within python.

If you are not familiar with these we provide a tool `pt2ts.py` as part of this distribution which contains an easily adaptable script to save your PyTorch model as Torch Script.

### 2. Fortran

To use the trained Torch model from within fortran we need to import the `ftorch` module and use the binding routines to load the model, convert the data, and run inference.

A very simple example is given below.
For more detailed documentation please consult the API documentation, source code, and examples.

This minimal snippet loads a saved Torch model, creates inputs consisting of two `10x10` matrices (one of ones, and one of zeros), and runs the model to infer output.

```fortran
! Import library for interfacing with PyTorch
use ftorch

implicit none

! Generate an object to hold the Torch model
type(torch_module) :: model

! Set up types of input and output data and the interface with C

> integer(c_int), parameter :: dims_input = 2

Author: Yes, added.

integer(c_int64_t) :: shape_input(dims_input)
integer(c_int), parameter :: n_inputs = 2
type(torch_tensor), dimension(n_inputs) :: model_input_arr
integer(c_int), parameter :: dims_output = 1
integer(c_int64_t) :: shape_output(dims_output)
type(torch_tensor) :: model_output

! Set up the model inputs as Fortran arrays
real, dimension(10,10), target  :: input_1, input_2
real, dimension(5), target   :: output

! Initialise the Torch model to be used
model = torch_module_load("/path/to/saved/model.pt"//c_null_char)

! Initialise the inputs as Fortran
input_1 = 0.0
input_2 = 1.0

! Wrap Fortran data as Torch Tensors
! There may well be some reshaping required depending on the 
! structure of the model which is not covered here (see examples)

> shape_input = (/10, 10/)

Author: Done.

shape_output = (/5/)
model_input_arr(1) = torch_tensor_from_blob(c_loc(input_1), dims_input, shape_input, torch_kFloat64, torch_kCPU)
model_input_arr(2) = torch_tensor_from_blob(c_loc(input_2), dims_input, shape_input, torch_kFloat64, torch_kCPU)
model_output = torch_tensor_from_blob(c_loc(output), dims_output, shape_output, torch_kFloat64, torch_kCPU)

! Run model and Infer
! Again, there may be some reshaping required depending on model design
call torch_module_forward(model, model_input_arr, n_inputs, model_output)

! Clean up
call torch_module_delete(model)
call torch_tensor_delete(model_input_arr(1))
call torch_tensor_delete(model_input_arr(2))
call torch_tensor_delete(model_output)
```

### 3. Build

In order to compile code using this library we need to link against the installation at

> compile time.

Author: Used suggestion.

Here we describe how to do this for two approaches, cmake and make.

#### CMake

> To build using cmake we need to find the FTorch installation and link it to the executable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If our project were using cmake we would need the following in the `CMakeLists.txt` file to find the FTorch installation and link it to the executable.
```
